1 ◦ Verify that no graphical interface is in use.
We will use the command ls /usr/bin/*session and it should give the same result as in the screenshot. If anything different appears, a graphical interface is being used.

2 ◦ Check that the UFW service is in use.
sudo ufw status
sudo service ufw status

3 ◦ Check that the SSH service is in use.
sudo service ssh status

4 ◦ Check that you are using the Debian or Centos operating system.
uname -v o uname --kernel-version

5 ◦ Check that your user is within the "sudo" and "user42" groups.
getent group sudo
getent group user42

6 ◦ Create a new user and show that it follows the password policy we have created.
sudo adduser name_user and enter a password that follows the policy.

7 ◦ We create a new group named "evaluating."
sudo addgroup evaluating

8 ◦ We add the new user to the new group.
sudo adduser name_user evaluating
To verify that it has been entered correctly.

9 ◦ Check that the machine's hostname is correct login42.

10 ◦ Modify hostname to replace your login with the evaluator's. In this case, we will replace it with student42.
sudo nano /etc/hostname and replace our login with the new one.
sudo nano /etc/hosts and replace our login with the new one.
Reboot the machine.
Once we have logged in again, we can see how the hostname has been changed correctly.

11 ◦ Check that all partitions are as indicated in the subject.
lsblk

12 ◦ Check that sudo is installed.
which sudo
For better use, we will use the following command:
dpkg -s sudo

13 ◦ Add the new user to the sudo group.
sudo adduser name_user sudo
We check that it is within the group.

14 ◦ Show the application of the rules imposed for sudo by the subject.

15 ◦ Show that the path /var/log/sudo/ exists and contains at least one file, in this we should see a history of the commands used with sudo.
Run a command with sudo and check that the file is updated.

16 ◦ Check that the UFW program is installed on the virtual machine and check that it works correctly.
dpkg -s ufw
sudo service ufw status

17 ◦ List the active rules in UFW, if the bonus part is not done, the rule for port 4242 should only appear.
sudo ufw status numbered

18 ◦ Create a new rule for port 8080. Verify that it has been added to the active rules and then you can delete it.
sudo ufw allow 8080 to create it.
sudo ufw status numbered
To delete the rule, we must use the command. sudo ufw delete num_rule
We check that it has been deleted and we see the number of the next rule that needs to be deleted.
Delete the new rule.
We check that only the required rules in the subject remain.

19 ◦ Check that the ssh service is installed on the virtual machine, that it works correctly, and that it only works on port 4242.
which ssh
sudo service ssh status

20 ◦ Use ssh to log in with the newly created user. Make sure that you cannot use ssh with the root user.
We try to connect over ssh with the root user but we do not have permission.
We connect via ssh with the new user using the command ssh newuser@localhost -p 4242

21 ◦ Modify the runtime of the script from 10 minutes to 1.
We run the following command to modify the crontab file sudo crontab -u root -e
We modify the first parameter, instead of 10 we change it to 1.

22 ◦ Finally, make the script stop running when the server has started, but without modifying the script.
sudo /etc/init.d/cron stop
If we want it to run again:
sudo /etc/init.d/cron start
Use sudo service cron status to check the current status of cron
If you want to stop cron, the command is sudo systemctl stop cron
Now the cron will stop temporarily, if you reboot VM, the cron will restart.
Or use command to restart it: sudo systemctl start cron :
In evaluation, you may need to stop the cron forever, and after reboot VM, cron should remain disabled.
To do this, use command: sudo systemctl disable cron
Then if you reboot VM, cron.service will be disabled and inactive.
To restart cron with sudo systemctl enable cron and sudo systemctl start cron
